PAUL LEWIS: Hello again.
Long time no see.
It turns out that I've been
doing other bits and pieces
in between working
on the media app.
Small clue, Google
I/O is coming up.
So that's probably what it is.
Anyway, what I wanted
to do is at least
talk about one feature that
has been very experimental.
Always fun to be on the
cutting edge of stuff,
and no different in this
particular situation.
I've been working
very closely with one
of the Chrome engineers,
Peter Beverloo, and his team
as well, to try and get some
background fetch into the app.
So what is Background fetch?
Background fetch
is, imagine you are
doing a normal
foreground fetch, where
you call fetch in your code.
That works.
But if you close the tab or
you go to a different URL
or whatever, the fetch stops.
That's how all the networking
stuff normally works.
Background fetch is
different insofar as you
trigger it from inside
your service worker.
It goes off, makes
a load of requests
that you ask it to make.
And then you get an event that
fires in your service worker
to say, hey, that
download is finished.
What do you want to do with it?
And you can do whatever
you want with it.
You can put them in the cache.
You can put them in the
response's IndexedDB.
It's really up to
you what you do.
But that makes it a much more
robust download experience.
And especially for something
like this, a media app,
it's probably one of
the perfect vehicles
for trying background fetch
out because, hey, we've
got big videos.
And what if you want to kind of
go off and do something else?
Well obviously it
makes sense for you
to kind of keep that download
going in the background.
So it's very early days.
This kind of the very first
implementation of background
fetch that landed in Chrome.
So I'm sure there's more to do.
I know there's more to do.
But I just wanted to at least
show you around this code
as it is today, just
so you've seen it.
All right, so let me
show you what actually
is different on the front end.
So I have on the browser,
or in the browser--
on the browser.
What is the correct thing,
in, on, by, with, from?
I don't know, one of those
with the browser involved.
I have been able--
experimental web
platform features
in about flags, which you should
do if you want to test this.
And that means that we
then get background fetch.
Let me show you in the console.
If I say BackgroundFetch--
there you are.
You see BackgroundFetchFetch.
I love the naming of these.
BackgroundFetchManager,
that's a thing.
That won't exist in
window otherwise.
So if you actually wanted to
feature detect it, you'd say,
you'd say BackgroundFetchManager
in window, true.
Or in Chrome stable or
whatever, it would be false.
So there you go.
So the BackgroundFetchManager
and the BackgroundFetch
and all those other things
are available in the window.
They're also available
in the service worker.
So when I said
before the service
worker does the
background download,
it's only partly true.
You can make the
foreground do it.
We'll get to that.
Anyway, let me show you
around the code a little bit.
So if you've had a look
at the code itself,
you'll have seen there is
an offline cache JavaScript
file which has sort
of grown over time.
And I think it's generally
true of this app now that--
if you remember way
back at the start
I said I know
nothing about media.
And this has been a journey
of exploration for me.
Knowing now what I know, I
think I would have structured
the app a little differently.
But that's the nature
of these things.
Sometimes you kind of
get to the end and go,
OK, I learned a lot.
It's not that is bad.
It's just that, I don't
know, it just sort have
grown organically over time.
And I think I would love to kind
of take a step back and go, OK,
that's how these
pieces would normally
interact if all these
features had been available
at the start.
There we go.
Right, background fetch.
So here's the thing here.
I have some code that says if
you support background fetch,
which is pretty much
what I just showed you--
it's that BackgroundFetchManager
in window--
that would be true
or it would be false.
If it's true, then I do
download in the background.
Otherwise I fall back
to what I had before,
which, if you recall,
is the download where
we sort of see the pie
chart and everything else.
And it's a foreground fetch
that happens in the page.
If you close the page,
nothing I can do for you.
So _downloadBackground,
what happens in there?
Well, what I do is I--
by this point, when I
call _downloadBackground,
I know which files I need,
which is like the video file,
the artwork, all the stuff that
I would be fetching to make
sure this thing is available,
like the HTML as well.
So I wait until the
service worker is ready.
This is a promise that resolves
whenever the service worker is
available.
So if there's no service
worker available,
then background fetch
won't be available.
So that's just how it is.
And I fire off an
event just for the UI.
But I also post the message
over to the service worker,
the active service worker,
with an action which
happens to be offline, the
name that I want it to use,
and the asset.
So the name is an
important thing.
You tag a particular
background fetch
so that if you have multiple
background fetches going on,
they have different
names in there
so that you can differentiate.
So you can actually have
multiple downloads going off
at the same time.
So on the service worker
side, let me fire that up.
Serviceworker.js, there we are.
On message, perfect.
In the case of the offline,
I just pull out those values
and I call into
this separate class
that I made called
BackgroundFetchHelper,
and I ask it to do the fetch.
So that leads us very neatly
onto the BackgroundFetchHelper,
which we can look in here.
And the BackgroundFetchHelper,
the fetch call here--
so the first thing
I do is I'm using
Jake's idb-keyval library,
because two reasons.
One is IDB is the
only store that's
available inside
a service worker
because that's where
this code is running.
Local storage isn't available.
And two, I don't
like working with IDB
directly if I can avoid it.
And Jake has written this
very small, very helpful
key-value store
that works with IDB.
So, well done, Jake.
But what I do is,
if you bear in mind
that when you start
a background fetch,
you may also then close the
tab, or any number of things
could happen.
Because what's
happening is the fetch
is being handled by some
other machinery somewhere.
And so we need to kind
of between states,
if you close the tab and
you brought the tab back,
we need to know,
hang on a minute,
there should be a background
fetch in progress,
or what have you.
And also when we get all
the various responses
in from the background
fetch, we kind of
have to tie it back to
the original request.
And that's exactly
what I'm doing here.
So you can see what I do is
I set, based on the tag name,
I store in IDB the assets
that we are requesting.
And then I set up
this background fetch,
which you can see is that's
the actual background fetch API
here on the
registration, because now
our backgroundFetch
property, which I think
is the BackgroundFetchManager
or an instance of that,
and then you call dot
fetch and you give it
the stuff that it needs, it
goes off, does its thing.
At the end of which
you see we have--
I've got currently registered
background fetch failed,
which would be if we
went on the responses
404ed, 500ed, or
something elsed.
And then background fetch
says, if all the things that
I've requested come back as
200s or just generally A-OK,
then we can call
_onBackgroundFetched.
So in the background fetch,
now what we have to do
is we have to consolidate.
Because we made a request
for, say, 10 files.
And the background fetch,
let's say it succeeded.
We get back 10 responses.
What we have to do is we have
to kind of go through and say,
well, what do I do with these?
Now if you recall
from previous times,
the videos get chunked
up into various pieces.
And so we'll need
to do the same here.
We basically have to go
through each of the responses,
figure out, which
response was it?
Which asset was I
actually requesting?
And we look at the response URL.
We look at the asset URL, the
one that we were requesting,
we kind of go, oh, that must be
that response for that thing.
What do I do with it?
Does that one get chunked?
Does that just go into
the cache as it is?
What am I supposed
to do with that?
So that's what the consolidation
step that I'm doing,
that's what it's
designed to do here.
You say I've got, for example,
if it's not chunking, just
put it straight into the cache.
If it is being chunked and being
split up into various blocks,
then we call cacheInChunks.
After we're done with handling
that array of responses,
then we can call this
_notifyAllClients,
which is basically a POST
back to all available clients.
So if you're new to
service worker stuff,
there's the idea that
you've got one service
worker which is shared amongst
possibly multiple tabs.
And so rather than kind of
trying to figure out exactly
which one of the tabs
requested the background fetch,
I just notify them all
and just say, by the way,
this background fetch happened.
Here's the tag name.
And then I have
some front end code
that consolidates that
and goes, oh yes, I
should throw up a toast and
say that that was downloaded.
And then there's
a bit of teardown
here, which is to
remove the IDB.
And you can see--
actually, let me go down
here-- that we delete the IDB
key-val so that if we were
to delete the downloaded videos
and then hit download again,
then it would all work as
expected rather than kind
of going, oh, I've already
got something in flight
there with that key-value
pair inside IDB.
So with all that code
in place, this is--
let me just get rid of that--
this is what it actually does.
So for argument's sake, so I'm
doing the background fetch.
And I can go off to Home.
And as I say in normals land
there, you'd do a notification.
And I think the
spec, or at least
the explainer for
background fetch,
suggests that there might
be some UI work to do there
about showing a notification.
But nonetheless when
we come back in here,
you can see I was on a
completely different page.
But you can see
that we've actually
now got the offline copy.
And in fact, I can show you
inside of the application
here, inside of
the cache storage,
we have the Chrome
channel trailer.
And these are all the
chunks of video and so on.
So the background
fetch happened.
We populated the cache.
And then when I came
back into the page,
I did the check that I
would have done anyway,
which is, do I have something
in the cache for this video?
If yes, I'll assume that
we have an offline video
available to us.
So the machinery that stores
and chunks and everything else
is kind of agnostic
to the front end
check to see whether it exists.
And that's actually
been extremely useful.
It means I don't really mind
whether background fetch
populates the cache
or a foreground
fetch populates the cache or
anything populates the cache.
So long as it's there
when I load this page,
I will assume that all
is good, because there's
only so many ways it
could have been populated.
And hopefully one of
them was me in my code.
So there you go.
That's a very, very speedy
tour around background fetch.
Have a look at the code.
Have a look at the explainer.
We'll pop that in
the notes below.
That's written by Jake.
Turns out he's quite useful.
Who knew?
Shocker of the day.
Anyway, also don't forget
you can comment, subscribe,
all that good stuff.
And let me know how you get on.
And I'll see you in the roundup
video for the media PWA.
Hey, folks, thanks for watching.
Don't forget that there
is more content that you
can find kind of over hereish.
And if you want to subscribe,
there's probably a button.
I don't know, maybe there,
maybe somewhere around there.
Click that if you've
not done that.
Brilliant.